it's like entering an alien world this
extraordinary color comes from tannins
washed out of the PT soil on land
it turns the top 3 meters of the water
into a dark suit this mimics some of the
conditions that would normally only
exist hundreds of metres below the
surface
it's my exceptional biologist you get to
see these things great thing about these
c-words
the fact he normally Amy see them in 700
metres of water
we're in seven weeks
like many deep-sea corals sea whips grow
very slowly and maybe hundreds of years
old although they might look like plants
sea whips are actually colonies of
animals each one is made up of hundreds
of polyps that feed using tiny tentacles
to catch plankton swept by in the
current
get star now at the moment it is always
tentacles are traitors it's quite a like
a starfish it likes to use these sea
whips this is bait cuz it's a filter
feeder climbs up the sea whip those
right out into the current so we can
take advantage of the sea whips reveal
one final secret this has been laid by
the draft board shark another species
more usually found in much deeper water
no one's ever seen how they do this but
the tangled knots are probably formed by
the shark swimming round and round the
sea whip